
-------------default and static methods--------
try creating a  interface with default method and try to call it in a class
try creating a interface with default and static method and try to call it in a  class

Consumer Exercise:


1. try consumer with integer input and do some operations
2. try consumer with string input and do some operations
3. try andThen method in consumer


1. use accept method in consumer for a Integer datatype
2. use andThen accept in consumer for a String datatype

1. change gender of each person to upper case
2. give 1000rupee bonus to each person as new year bonus 


BiConsumer Exercise:

1. try BIconsumer with integer input and do some operations
2. try BIconsumer with string input and do some operations
3. try andThen method in BIconsumer

1. use accept method in BIconsumer for a Integer datatype
2. use andThen accept in BIconsumer for a String datatype
  
1.  get both  salary and the hobbies but the hobbies must be in  upper case
2. get name and salary 
  
PREDICATE::

 1 Write a predicate to check the length of given string is greater than 3 or not.
2. try exploring, and or, test methods in predicate

1. check gender is female and salary greater 2000

BIPREDICATE:

 1 Write a predicate to check the length of given string is greater than 3 or not.
2. try exploring, and or, test methods in predicate 
3. try exploring bipredicate as well 

SUPPLIER, FUNCTION
TRY EXPLORING
------------------------------------------
stream
 List<String> names = Arrays.asList("Sam", "Peter","ballon","Sam");
1. try to print the count of the datas having length greater than 3 

2. write a logic to convert all the datas in a list to uppercase 

2. Have a list of string for cities like chennai, mumbai, bangalore , delhi ,chicago

List<String> cityList = Arrays.asList("chennai", "mumbai", "bangalore", "", "delhi", "chicago");


 i) convert the  all te cities to uppercase
 ii) filter te cities whose lengt is greater than 6
iii) filter the cities that starts with c
iv) print the cities that contains "ai"
v) append  the word "metro" to all the cities (hint: manipulation )

vii) count how many cities start with c  (hint:use terminal operation:count)
ix) count the empty string  (hint:use terminal operation:count)
x) remove all empty string from list





